DOC-1812: 6.2 Release notes plus related admin and nav docs changes (#2521)
tinymce/tinymce-docs: modules/ROOT/pages/6.2-release-notes.adoc

When dragging other elements (such as an image), as the dragged element approaches the edge of the document, {productname} starts scrolling, allowing these other elements to be dropped anywhere in the document.

With this update, dragging an element with a `contenteditable=false` attribute towards the document edge triggers scrolling, allowing for dropping the element anywhere in the document.

In {productname} 6.2, dragging elements with `contenteditable=false` attributes now results in the same behavior as dragging other draggable elements.

=== Parsing large documents no longer throws a Maximum call stack size exceeded exception

Previously, parsing very large documents would throw an error to the console that they had exceeded the Maximum call stack size. 

For example:

[listing]
----
tinymce.min.js:9 Uncaught RangeError: Maximum call stack size exceeded
    at tinymce.min.js:9:144118
    at zp (tinymce.min.js:9:143461)
    at zp (tinymce.min.js:9:143480)
    at zp (tinymce.min.js:9:143507)
    at zp (tinymce.min.js:9:143507)
----

> the {productname} 6.2 parsing logic was updated and {productname} can now handle large documents without throwing this error.

Author: ```suggestion
The {productname} 6.2 parsing logic was updated and {productname} can now handle large documents without throwing this error.
```

=== Fixed a regression where pressing Enter deleted selected `contenteditable="false" <pre>` elements

A regression found in {productname} 6.0 caused `preformatted` elements with `contenteditable="false"` attributes to incorrectly insert a newline when *Enter* or *Return* were pressed.

This regression was fixed in {productname} 6.2 and pressing *Enter* or *Return* no longer inserts an erroneous newline.

=== The `editor.insertContent()` API did not respect the `no_events` argument

If, for example, `editor.insertContent('<p>test</p>', { no_events: true });` was run, `BeforeGetContent` and `SetContent` events were still fired, despite `no_events` being set to `true`.

With this update, the API respects the `no_events: true` setting. Adding content to a {productname} document with `no_events` set to true now adds the content without firing events, as expected.

[[deprecated]]
== Deprecated

=== The `autocompleter` configuration property, `ch`, has been deprecated

The `ch` autocompleter configuration property will be removed in the next major release.

Use the `trigger` property instead.

[source,js]
----
trigger: '<string>',
----

> [[known-issues]]

Reviewer: - [ ] missing Autocorrect known issues

Reviewer: - [ ] double-check footnotes known issues

Reviewer: (discussion): move across the autocorrect known issues

Reviewer: (discussion): add a footnotes known issue that generally captures "will not automatically update under certain circumstances"

It allowed spaces to be entered when it was empty and the text input contained text, but did not allow spaces to be entered when both fields were empty.

In {productname} 6.2, the xref:dialog-components/#urlinput[UrlInput] dialog component no longer allows leading or trailing spaces. Only spaces within other text content are now allowed.

=== The text patterns logic threw an error when there were fragmented text nodes in a paragraph.

Previously, pressing *Enter* or *Return* to trigger an inline replacement text pattern could, in certain circumstances, throw an error to the console.

[listing]
----
> tinymce.min.js:9 Uncaught DOMException: Failed to execute 'setEnd' on 'Range'
----

For this update the text pattern logic was improved to handle these cases and these console errors are no longer thrown.

=== Dragging a `contentEditable=false` element towards a document’s edge did not cause scrolling.

Previously, when an element with a `contenteditable=false` attribute was dragged towards the document’s edge, the drag did not cause scrolling. This meant such elements could only be dropped within the current viewport.

> When dragging other elements (such as an image), as the dragged element aproaches the edge of the document, {productname} starts scrolling, allowing these other elements to be dropped anywhere in the document.

Reviewer 2: Spelling correction - aproaches -> approaches

Author: corrected.

= TinyMCE 6.2
:navtitle: TinyMCE 6.2
:description: Release notes for TinyMCE 6.2
:keywords: releasenotes, new, changes, bugfixes
:page-toclevels: 1

include::partial$misc/admon-releasenotes-for-stable.adoc[]

[[overview]]
== Overview

{productname} 6.2 was released for {enterpriseversion} and {cloudname} on Monday, September 26^th^, 2022. It includes {productname} 6.2, additional changes to Premium plugins, and several new Premium plugins. These release notes provide an overview of the changes for {productname} 6.2:

* xref:new-premium-plugins[New Premium plugins]
* xref:accompanying-premium-plugin-changes[Accompanying Premium Plugin changes]
* xref:accompanying-premium-skins-and-icon-packs-changes[Accompanying Premium Skins and Icon Packs changes]
* xref:improvements[Improvements]

> * xref:additions[Additions]

Reviewer 3: The list and the left navbar say that the `Improvements` section should be before the `Additions` section. Although, that doesn't look to be the case below

Reviewer: (discussion): decision was to move all the notes themselves in the content so that additions are after improvements

* xref:changes[Changes]
* xref:bug-fixes[Bug fixes]
* xref:deprecated[Deprecated]
* xref:known-issues[Known issues]

[[new-premium-plugins]]
== New Premium plugins

> === Spelling Autocorrect 1.0.0

Reviewer 4: Should this be at the bottom of the list so its alphabetical?

Author: To quote my commit message:

> Moved Spelling Autocorrect to end of New Premium plugins section. The three new premium plugins are now presented in alphabetical order.

With this update all audio objects are set to `min-width: 100px` and now continue to show in {productname} documents when aligned left or right.

For information on the **Enhanced Media Embed** plugin, see: xref:introduction-to-mediaembed.adoc[Enhanced Media Embed].

=== Permanent Pen 2.0.2

The {productname} 6.2 release includes an accompanying release of the **Permanent Pen** premium plugin.

Permanent Pen 2.0.2 fixes the following bug:

Previously, if Permanent Pen was switched off (by, for example, clicking the Permanent Pen button in the toolbar so the button toggles from highlighted to not-highlighed) and the next user-action was to press the *Enter* or *Return* key, Permanent Pen did not turn off as expected.

This update improves Permanent Pen’s activate and deactivate mechanism. When the plugin is switched off and the next user-action is to press either *Enter* or *Return*, Permanent Pen stays switched off.

For information on the **Permanent Pen** plugin, see: xref:permanentpen.adoc[Permanent Pen].

=== PowerPaste 6.1.1

The {productname} 6.2 release includes an accompanying release of the **PowerPaste** premium plugin.

PowerPaste 6.1.1 fixes the following bug:

> The `wordimport.js` resource file was difficult to bundle when using Webpack 5.

Reviewer: (discussion): you don't need to mock node things now. But we've decided we don't want / need to include that detail.

> The `wordimport.js` resource file was difficult to bundle when using Webpack 5.

Reviewer: (post-discussion): Brian to write a general sentence without specifics.

// #TINY-8791

> // Bumped internal dependency of wimp to fix webpack 5 bundling issues

Reviewer 4: Should this still be here?

Reviewer: - [ ] remove commented code

Author: Commented code removed.

For information on the **PowerPaste** plugin, see: xref:introduction-to-powerpaste.adoc[PowerPaste].

=== Real-Time Collaboration 2.1.1

The {productname} 6.2 release includes an accompanying release of the **Real-Time Collaboration** premium plugin.

Real-Time Collaboration 2.1.1 fixes the following bug:

> The Real_Time Collaboration plugin validates `that` parameters, used to set the token provider among other settings, as valid Promises.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The Real-Time Collaboration plugin validates that parameters, used to set the token provider among other settings, are valid link:https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise[Promises].
```
Typo, links and minor edits as this didn't really make sense. I'm not sure it still does tbh, but it's more correct.

Author: > Typo, links and minor edits as this didn't really make sense.

I’ve committed your edit. That said:

> I'm not sure it still does tbh, but it's more correct.

Does this make more sense?

_The Real-Time Collaboration plugin checks that parameters used to set the token provider, among other settings, are valid link:https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise[Promises]._

However, Angular code wraps promises into ZoneAwarePromises. These fail said validation, throwing an `expected it to return a promise` error.

With this update, providers now accept any object that has `then` and `catch` functions as compatible with promise-like objects.

For information on the **Real-Time Collaboration** plugin, see: xref:rtc-introduction.adoc[Real-Time Collaboration].

=== Spell Checker Pro 3.1.0

The {productname} 6.2 release includes an accompanying release of the **Spell Checker Pro** premium plugin.

Spell Checker Pro 3.1.0 adds one change and fixes two bugs:

==== The `SpellcheckerLanguageChanged` event is now dispatched at plugin initialization

> Spell Checker Pro now fires the `SpellcheckerLanguageChanged` event when it is initialized, making the language Spell Checker Pro has been configured to use available for querying.

Reviewer: - [ ] wrong word somewhere here: "making the _ has been configured"

Reviewer: (discussion) everyone else was fine with it.

This enables other plugins to check for the currently configured language.

==== In some specific cases, copying and pasting in tables did not work as expected due to Spell Checker Pro incorrectly moving the selection

In some circumstances, Spell Checker Pro would silently, and incorrectly, extend a selection. When the extended selection was then copied-and-pasted, unexpected results occurred.

> For example, in some circumstances the selection appeared to be the contents of a single table cell, but Spell Checker Pro incorrectly extended the selection to include an HTML markup element outside the table. When this wa pasted, the incorrectly added element made the paste behave incorrectly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, in some circumstances the selection appeared to be the contents of a single table cell, but Spell Checker Pro incorrectly extended the selection to include an HTML markup element outside the table. When this was pasted, the incorrectly added element made the paste behave incorrectly.
```

With this update, the way elements are traversed when selections are being made has been changed. Consequently, incorrect selection extension no longer occurs, and copying-and-pasting content from tables works as expected.

==== Spellchecking incorrectly triggered on all `change` events

Spell Checker Pro should trigger on any `paste` event, whether the event comes from a plugin (such as Paste or PowerPaste) or a native browser action. Previously, however, Spell Checker Pro was listening to the wrong event — the `change` event — to cover this case.

As a consequence, Spell Checker Pro triggered on all `change` events.

With this update, Spell Checker Pro now listens for input events and only triggers when content is inserted into a {productname} document.

For information on the **Spell Checker Pro** plugin, see: xref:introduction-to-tiny-spellchecker.adoc[Spell Checker Pro].

[[accompanying-premium-skins-and-icon-packs-changes]]
== Accompanying Premium Skins and Icon Packs changes

The {productname} 6.2 release includes an accompanying release of the **Premium Skins and Icon Packs**.

=== Premium Skins and Icon Packs

> The **Premium Skins and Icon Packs** release includes the following update:

Reviewer 4: Not sure if you want to mention it, but there are 2 new icons for all icon packs: `addtag` and `footnote`. See https://github.com/tinymce/tinymce-docs/pull/2503

Author: to quote my commit message:

> Made explicit mention of the two new icons added to all icon packs: `addtag` and `footnote`.

The **Premium Skins and Icon Packs** were rebuilt to pull in the changes also incorporated into the default {productname} 6.2 skin, Oxide.

For information on using premium skins and icon packs, see: xref:premium-skins-and-icons.adoc[Premium Skins and Icon Packs].

[[additions]]
== Additions

{productname} 6.2 also includes the following additions:

> === A new `text_patterns_lookup` option to provide additional text patterns dynamically.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
=== A new `text_patterns_lookup` option to provide additional text patterns dynamically
```
No full stops on headings normally. They are inconsistent within this file at the very least.

{productname} 6.2 includes a new `text_patterns_lookup` option.

This option allows the specification of a function that dynamically appends additional text patterns to the default xref:content-behavior-options.adoc#text_patterns[text_patterns].

The function takes a context object as an argument and returns an array of text patterns. This function is called whenever the editor triggers text pattern matching.

For details see xref:content-behavior-options.adoc#text_patterns_lookup[Content Behavior Options].

> === A new promotion element has been added to the default UI.

Reviewer 4: This should probably mention it only applies for Community (opensource), as Enterprise (premium) users won't see it and as such this could be confusing.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
=== A new promotion element has been added to the default UI
```

{productname} 6.2 includes an *Upgrade* promotion button. It appears in the unused corner of the {productname} menu bar.

It can be disabled using the new `promotion` option.

For more information see xref:content-appearance.adoc#premium-upgrade-promotion-option[Premium upgrade promotion option].

> === New `format_noneditable_selector` option to specify the `contenteditable="false"` elements that can be wrapped in a format.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
=== New `format_noneditable_selector` option to specify the `contenteditable="false"` elements that can be wrapped in a format
```

Elements with `contenteditable="false"` attributes can now have formatting applied to them.

And this new capability is configurable using the new `format_noneditable_selector` option.

[source,js]
----
tinymce.init({
  selector: 'textarea',  // change this value according to your HTML
  format_noneditable_selector: 'span,p.special'
});
----

For details see xref:content-formatting.adoc#format_noneditable_selector[Content Formatting].

> === Added `allow` as a valid attribute for the `iframe` element in the editor schema.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
=== Added `allow` as a valid attribute for the `iframe` element in the editor schema
```

[source,html]
----
<iframe allow="fullscreen" style="width: 200px; height: 200px; border: 1px solid blue"></iframe>
----

— is initialized, the `allow` attribute will still be present in the rendered `iframe` element.

=== MenuButtons can now contain a search field

MenuButtons, buttons on the {productname} toolbar that show a menu when clicked, can now present a search field at the top of the menu.

The button refetches items as the search field is updated.

The new xref:mergetags.adoc[Merge Tags] Premium plugin includes a MenuButton with this new search field.

[[improvements]]
== Improvements

{productname} 6.2 also includes the following improvements:

=== Formatting can now be applied to an element that has a `contenteditable="false"` attribute

Elements with `contenteditable="false"` attributes can now have formatting applied to them.

For example, such elements can now be set to *bold* or _italic_. As well, such elements can have their font and font-size changed.

This new capability is also configurable using the new `format_noneditable_selector` option.

For details see xref:content-formatting.adoc#format_noneditable_selector[Content Formatting].

> === The autocompleter now supports a multiple character trigger using the new trigger configuration.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
=== The autocompleter now supports a multiple character trigger using the new trigger configuration
```

> Previously, the autocompleter only supported a single character trigger.

Reviewer: Do we mention anything about deprecation in the release notes? Or not typically?

With this update, the autocompleter now supports multi-character triggers.

The new xref:mergetags.adoc[Merge Tags] Premium plugin, for example, uses the string `+{{+` as its default trigger.

=== Some inline formatting, such as color and font size, can now be applied to list item elements

In {productname} 6.2 list bullets and list numbers can be inline-formatted.

> If the contents of a list item are selected and inline formatting is applied — such as a change of color or change of font-size — this spot-formatting is also applied to the list item’s associated bullet or number.

Reviewer: I know it's defined in the link, but it seems like we just pull `spot-formatting` out of nowhere here? Should it just be `inline-formatting` like it is in the rest of the point. Also, we have a bit of inconsistent hyphenation with inline formatting.

Author: > but it seems like we just pull spot-formatting out of nowhere here?

Inline-formatting is a web-developer–centric term-of-art. _Spot-formatting_ is the equivalent term used in the editorial world for this sort of ad-hoc formatting.

For more information see the xref:advlist.adoc#inline-formatting[Inline formatting of list elements documentation].

> === The installed and available plugin lists in the Help dialog are now sorted alphabetically.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
=== The installed and available plugin lists in the Help dialog are now sorted alphabetically
```

Previously, when the *Help > Help* dialog was invoked, and the _Plugins_ list was selected, available Premium plugins were supposed to be presented in alphabetical order by name.

This was done manually, however, and the manual presentation was not entirely alphabetical.

Also, this manual sort did not take account of the selected UI language and the Premium plugin names were not, in the main, translated.

With this update Premium plugin names are explicitly not translated. But they are, now, correctly sorted in alphabetical order by name.

> === Alignment can now be applied to more embedded media element types.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
=== Alignment can now be applied to more embedded media element types
```

Embedded media elements could not, previously, be set to left, right, or center alignment.

With this update they can. Selecting an embedded media element and clicking the left, right, or center alignment toolbar buttons, or selecting the appropriate option from the *Format > Align* sub-menu, sets the element to the chosen alignment.

[[changes]]
== Changes

{productname} 6.2 also incorporates the following changes:

> === The `@menubar-row-separator-color` oxide variable no longer affects the divider between the Menubar and Toolbar.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
=== The `@menubar-row-separator-color` oxide variable no longer affects the divider between the Menubar and Toolbar
```

Testing revealed circumstances in which an unnecessary border was added under the {productname} Menu bar.

> This update includes changes to the `@menubar-row-separator-color` oxide variable. It now only controls the color of the separator lines drawn in multiline Menubars.

Reviewer: Still has "Menubars"

Consequently, unnecessary borders are no longer added under the {productname} menu bar.

> === The `@toolbar-separator-color` oxide variable now affects the color of the separator between the Menu bar and Toolbar only.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
=== The `@toolbar-separator-color` oxide variable now affects the color of the separator between the Menu bar and Toolbar only
```

In concert with the testing above that discovered an unnecessary border occasionally being added under the {productname} Menu bar, the `@toolbar-separator-color` oxide variable was also changed.

This variable now only affects the color of the separator between the {productname} Menu bar and the {productname} Toolbar.

> === Available Premium plugins, which are listed by name in the Help dialog, are no longer translated.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
=== Available Premium plugins, which are listed by name in the Help dialog, are no longer translated
```

> Previously, when the *Help > Help* dialog was invoked, and the _Plugins_ list was selected, available Premium plugins were supposed to be presented in alphabetical order by name.

Reviewer: This section seems to be entirely duplicated from the above section in improvements. Is that intentional because it is both a change and an improvement?

Reviewer: (discussion) de-duplicate.

> Previously, when the *Help > Help* dialog was invoked, and the _Plugins_ list was selected, available Premium plugins were supposed to be presented in alphabetical order by name.

Reviewer: (discussion) de-duplicate.

This was done manually, however, and the manual presentation was not entirely alphabetical.

Also, this manual sort did not take account of the selected UI language and the Premium plugin names were not, in the main, translated.

With this update Premium plugin names are explicitly not translated. But they are, now, correctly sorted in alphabetical order by name.

[[bug-fixes]]
== Bug fixes

> === The Autolink plugin did not work when text nodes in the content were fragmented.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
=== The Autolink plugin did not work when text nodes in the content were fragmented
```

> The Spell Checker Pro plugin fragments text nodes as part of its normal workings. Previously however, this fragmentation broke the URL text detection of the Autolink plugin.

Author: To, again, quote the commit message:

> *Autolink plugin did not work when text nodes in the content were fragmented* section re-written to make it explicit that, while Spell Checker Pro is the most common cause of fragmentation, it is not the only one.

This presented as, for example, FQDN strings such as `www.example.com` not being converted into a link.

In {productname} 6.2, the Autolink plugin is now able to handle this text node fragmentation and correctly converts URL-like strings such as FQDNs into a clickable link.

> === Fixed multiple incorrect types on public APIs found while enabling TypeScript strict mode.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
=== Fixed multiple incorrect types on public APIs found while enabling TypeScript strict mode
```

As part of switching to TypeScript’s strict mode, multiple public {productname} APIs were found to be typed incorrectly.

These types have been corrected types in {productname} 6.2. 

> === The number of blank lines returned from `editor.getContent({format: 'text'})` differed between browsers.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
=== The number of blank lines returned from `editor.getContent({format: 'text'})` differed between browsers
```

In some browsers, blank lines in a {productname} document were being returned as plain text by `editor.getContent({format: 'text'})` with a different number of newlines — `+\n+` — than expected.

For example, if the underlying HTML was

[source,html]
----
<p>line-1</p>
<p> </p>
<p>line-2</p>
----

`editor.getContent({format: 'text'})` could, depending on the host browser, return

[listing]
----
line-1\n\n\n\n\nline-2
----

This is one more newline character than expected.

> There were two related causes for this behaviour: an attribute not being assigned to a `<br>` tag when required, and {productname} not removing unnecessary elements when parsing the content.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
There were two related causes for this behavior: an attribute not being assigned to a `<br>` tag when required, and {productname} not removing unnecessary elements when parsing the content.
```
Should be US English, so shouldn't have a `u` here.

For this update, both these causes have been corrected, and the number of newlines returned as plain text by `editor.getContent({format: 'text'})` is the number expected.

> === The editor focused via the `auto_focus` option was not scrolled into the viewport.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
=== The editor focused via the `auto_focus` option was not scrolled into the viewport
```

Previously, when a {productname} editor was not in view and was set to auto focus, the editor was focused but did not scroll into view.

> This only occurred if the host browser was Google Chrome.

Reviewer 4: This happened on other browsers IIRC, it was jus the one tested on. I'd suggest either removing this or just make it more generic and say "some browsers".

Author: To quote the commit message:

> In *the editor focused via the `auto_focus` was not scrolled into the viewport* section, minor re-write to turn the specific (Google Chrome) in to the general (some browsers).

With this update, when auto focus is set, the editor is focused and scrolled into view even when the editor is outside the viewport, no matter the host browser.

> === Adding spaces immediately after a `<span>` containing a `contenteditable="false"` attribute did not work properly in some circumstances.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
=== Adding spaces immediately after a `<span>` containing a `contenteditable="false"` attribute did not work properly in some circumstances
```

Previously, pressing the *Space bar* when the insertion point was immediately after a `span` containing a `contenteditable="false"` attribute did not consistently insert a space.

This was known to occur on Mozilla Firefox and Google Chrome and was consequent to issues related to insertion point movement and non-breaking spaces.

> {productname} 6.2 deals with these issues and typing a space immediately after a a block with a `contenteditable="false"` attribute now adds that space, as expected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{productname} 6.2 deals with these issues and typing a space immediately after a block with a `contenteditable="false"` attribute now adds that space, as expected.
```

> === Elements with only `data-*` custom attributes were sometimes removed when they should not be removed.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
=== Elements with only `data-*` custom attributes were sometimes removed when they should not be removed
```

Previously, when removing formatting from content that had elements with only custom data attributes, those elements could be incorrectly removed as part of the remove formatting operation.

> For this update the remove formatting logic was changed. In {productnmae 6.2 all non-{productname} specific or non-{productname} internal `data-*` custom attributes are considered content that must be preserved.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For this update the remove formatting logic was changed. In {productname} 6.2 all non-{productname} specific or non-{productname} internal `data-*` custom attributes are considered content that must be preserved.
```

> For this update the remove formatting logic was changed. In {productnmae 6.2 all non-{productname} specific or non-{productname} internal `data-*` custom attributes are considered content that must be preserved.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For this update the remove formatting logic was changed. In {productname} 6.2 all non-{productname} specific or non-{productname} internal `data-*` custom attributes are considered content that must be preserved.
```

> === Selecting a figure with `class="image"` incorrectly highlighted the link toolbar button.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
=== Selecting a figure with `class="image"` incorrectly highlighted the link toolbar button
```

Previously, when inserting an image with a caption, the `image` plugin created a `figure` element. However, the `link` plugin treated the `figure` element as a link, even when the image caption did not contain a link.

This caused the link toolbar button to, incorrectly, highlight.

As of this update, the `link` plugin does not treat images with captions as links when the image caption does not contain a link. And the link toolbar no longer highlights incorrectly.

> === Specifying a single, non-default list style for the `advlist_bullet_styles` and `advlist_number_styles` options was not respected.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
=== Specifying a single, non-default list style for the `advlist_bullet_styles` and `advlist_number_styles` options was not respected
```

Previously, when a single, non-default, list style for the `advlist_bullet_styles` and `advlist_number_styles` options was set, pressing the `bullist` and `numlist` toolbar buttons still applied a default list style.

This has been corrected and, with this update, {productname} behaves as expected.

Pressing a list toolbar button when a single, non-default list style is set now applies the list style correctly.

> === Fixed multiple issues that occurred when formatting elements with `contenteditable` attributes.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
=== Fixed multiple issues that occurred when formatting elements with `contenteditable` attributes
```

For this update, the formatting logic has been refactored to improve the handling of elements containing `+contenteditable=”false”+` and `+contenteditable=”true”+` attributes.

In particular, this includes ensuring that formatting is not directly removed from elements with `+contenteditable=”false”+` attributes when merging duplicate or similar formatting between parent, sibling and child elements.

> === Spaces could be incorrectly added to `urlinput` dialog components in certain cases.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
=== Spaces could be incorrectly added to `urlinput` dialog components in certain cases
```

> The handling of spaces inserted into the xref:dialog-components/#urlinput[UrlInput] dialog component, specifically its implementation in the xref:link[Link Dialog], was inconsistent.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The handling of spaces inserted into the xref:dialog-components.adoc#urlinput[UrlInput] dialog component, specifically its implementation in the xref:link[Link Dialog], was inconsistent.
```

It allowed spaces to be entered when it was empty and the text input contained text, but did not allow spaces to be entered when both fields were empty.

> In {productname} 6.2, the xref:dialog-components/#urlinput[UrlInput] dialog component no longer allows leading or trailing spaces. Only spaces within other text content are now allowed.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In {productname} 6.2, the xref:dialog-components.adoc#urlinput[UrlInput] dialog component no longer allows leading or trailing spaces. Only spaces within other text content are now allowed.
```

> === The text patterns logic threw an error when there were fragmented text nodes in a paragraph.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
=== The text patterns logic threw an error when there were fragmented text nodes in a paragraph
```

> Previously, pressing *Enter* or *Return* to trigger an inline replacement text pattern could, in certain circumstances, throw an error to the console.

Reviewer: The error below is an example error, and may appear differently on other browsers. We probably need a "such as" or something similar to make it clear that the error is not necessarily going to appear like this.

Reviewer: (discussion): just make it clear that this might not be the same on all browsers.

Author: Added sentence noting the browser-specific nature of the example error message.

[listing]
----
> tinymce.min.js:9 Uncaught DOMException: Failed to execute 'setEnd' on 'Range'
----

For this update the text pattern logic was improved to handle these cases and these console errors are no longer thrown.

> === Dragging a `contentEditable=false` element towards a document’s edge did not cause scrolling.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
=== Dragging a `contentEditable=false` element towards a document’s edge did not cause scrolling
```

Previously, when an element with a `contenteditable=false` attribute was dragged towards the document’s edge, the drag did not cause scrolling. This meant such elements could only be dropped within the current viewport.

When dragging other elements (such as an image), as the dragged element approaches the edge of the document, {productname} starts scrolling, allowing these other elements to be dropped anywhere in the document.

With this update, dragging an element with a `contenteditable=false` attribute towards the document edge triggers scrolling, allowing for dropping the element anywhere in the document.

In {productname} 6.2, dragging elements with `contentEditable=false` attributes now results in the same behavior as dragging other draggable elements.

> === Parsing large documents no longer throws a Maximum call stack size exceeded exception.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
=== Parsing large documents no longer throws a Maximum call stack size exceeded exception
```

Previously, parsing very large documents would throw an error to the console that they had exceeded the Maximum call stack size. 

For example:

[listing]
----
tinymce.min.js:9 Uncaught RangeError: Maximum call stack size exceeded
    at tinymce.min.js:9:144118
    at zp (tinymce.min.js:9:143461)
    at zp (tinymce.min.js:9:143480)
    at zp (tinymce.min.js:9:143507)
    at zp (tinymce.min.js:9:143507)
----

> the {productnanme} 6.2 parsing logic was updated and {productname} can now handle large documents without throwing this error.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
the {productname} 6.2 parsing logic was updated and {productname} can now handle large documents without throwing this error.
```

> === DomParser filter matching was not checked between filters, which could lead to an exception in the parser.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
=== DomParser filter matching was not checked between filters, which could lead to an exception in the parser
```

Previously, this node filter function did not check whether the next filter was still valid for all nodes. This meant the {productname} filters naively assumed that each attribute would be available for each filter.

This situation, which was not identified by default, could, when using a custom filter, potentially remove a necessary attribute for the next filter. This resulted in a console error.

This has been fixed in {productname} 6.2 by checking that each filter is still valid with the current attributes before running that filter.

=== Fixed `contenteditable="false"` lists and `contenteditable="true"` list elements issues

Previously, lists with `contenteditable="false"` attributes could be toggled and updated. And, within those lists, list elements with `contenteditable="true"` attributes could be indented, split into another list element, or appended to the previous list element by deletion.

Neither behavior was correct and, as of {productname} 6.2, this has been corrected.

In {productname} 6.2, list functionality in this regard is dependent on the state of the closest inheritable `contenteditable` attribute.

> If a `list` has a `contenteditable` attribute value of its own, this is, of course the closest ‘inheritable’ attribute, and the list and its child elements takes that value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a `list` has a `contenteditable` attribute value of its own, this is, of course the closest ‘inheritable’ attribute, and the list and its child elements take that value.
```

If a `list` does not have a `contenteditable` attribute value of its own and the immediate parent of the `list` is a `div` which does have a `contenteditable` attribute set, the `list` will inherit the value of this attribute.

However, if the `list` has a `contenteditable` attribute value of its own it will take this value rather than the value of the parent div.

Likeiwse, if a child element of a `list` (for example, an `+<li>+`) has a `contenteditable` attribute value of its own, it will take this value rather than the value of any parent element.

> === Removed extra bottom padding in the context toolbar of the TinyMCE 5 skin.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
=== Removed extra bottom padding in the context toolbar of the TinyMCE 5 skin
```

In {productname} 6.1.2, extra padding was added to the context toolbar and, consequently, separator lines were incorrectly drawn on multi-line toolbars when using either the `tinymce-5` skin or premium skins.

With this update the extra padding was removed and separator lines in {productname} 6.2 multi-line toolbars are drawn correctly.

> === Fixed a regression where pressing Enter added or deleted content outside the selection.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
=== Fixed a regression where pressing Enter added or deleted content outside the selection
```

A regression found in {productname} 6.0 caused inline elements with `contenteditable="false"` attributes to be incorrectly removed when *Enter* or *Return* were pressed on a selection which began before, and entered into, the block containing the element.

This regression was fixed in {productname} 6.2 and pressing *Enter* or *Return* in this circumstance no longer incorrectly removes these elements.

> === Fixed a regression where pressing Enter deleted selected `contenteditable="false" <pre>` elements.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
=== Fixed a regression where pressing Enter deleted selected `contenteditable="false" <pre>` elements
```

A regression found in {productname} 6.0 caused `preformatted` elements with `contenteditable="false"` attributes to incorrectly insert a newline when *Enter* or *Return* were pressed.

This regression was fixed in {productname} 6.2 and pressing *Enter* or *Return* no longer inserts an erroneous newline.

> === The `editor.insertContent()` API did not respect the `no_events` argument.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
=== The `editor.insertContent()` API did not respect the `no_events` argument
```

If, for example, `editor.insertContent('<p>test</p>', { no_events: true });` was run, `BeforeGetContent` and `SetContent` events were still fired, despite `no_events` being set to `true`.

With this update, the API respects the `no_events: true` setting. Adding content to a {productname} document with `no_events` set to true now adds the content without firing events, as expected.

[[deprecated]]
== Deprecated

> === The `autocompleter` configuration property, `ch`, has been deprecated.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
=== The `autocompleter` configuration property, `ch`, has been deprecated
```

The `ch` autocompleter configuration property will be removed in the next major release.

> Use the `trigger` property instead.

Reviewer: Should we explain why it was deprecated?

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The `trigger` property should be used instead, as it allows one or more characters to be specified.
```
To try and suggest something for Morgan's comment.

Reviewer: (discussion): accept suggestion

With this update the extra padding was removed and separator lines in {productname} 6.2 multi-line toolbars are drawn correctly.

=== Fixed a regression where pressing Enter added or deleted content outside the selection

A regression found in {productname} 6.0 caused inline elements with `contenteditable="false"` attributes to be incorrectly removed when *Enter* or *Return* were pressed on a selection which began before, and entered into, the block containing the element.

This regression was fixed in {productname} 6.2 and pressing *Enter* or *Return* in this circumstance no longer incorrectly removes these elements.

=== Fixed a regression where pressing Enter deleted selected `contenteditable="false" <pre>` elements

A regression found in {productname} 6.0 caused `preformatted` elements with `contenteditable="false"` attributes to incorrectly insert a newline when *Enter* or *Return* were pressed.

This regression was fixed in {productname} 6.2 and pressing *Enter* or *Return* no longer inserts an erroneous newline.

=== The `editor.insertContent()` API did not respect the `no_events` argument

> If, for example, `editor.insertContent('<p>test</p>', { no_events: true });` was run, `BeforeGetContent` and `SetContent` events were still fired, despite `no_events` being set to `true`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If, for example, `editor.insertContent('<p>test</p>', { no_events: true });` was run, `BeforeSetContent` and `SetContent` events were still fired, despite `no_events` being set to `true`.
```

Reviewer: (discussion): accept suggestion

There are three known issues in {productname} 6.2, all affecting the new premium plugin, xref:mergetags.adoc[Merge Tags].

=== Merge Tags cannot be manually added to a {productname} document in some circumstances

There are several circumstances where typing the Merge tags prefix (by default, `+{{+`) does not activate the `autocompleter`. Consequently, choosing a Merge tag from the expected pop-up menu is not possible because the pop-up menu does not present.

Moreover, in the circumstances where the `autocompleter` does not activate, even typing the entire Merge tag does not result in the string being turned in to a Merge tag.

There is a workaround, however.

If typing the Merge tags prefix does not work as expected, clicking the Merge tags toolbar button and selecting the desired Merge tag from the resultant menu inserts a functioning Merge tag.

=== Merge tags does not validate inserted strings that match merge tag syntax

If a string is pasted or otherwise inserted into a {productname} document and that string presents as a complete merge tag, the Merge tag plugin will turn the string into an apparently working merge tag, regardless of the string’s content.

> For example, if a {productname} instance is running the Merge tags plugin and the plugin is using the default prefix and suffix characters — +{{+` and +}}+` — pasting

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
For example, if a {productname} instance is running the Merge tags plugin and the plugin is using the default prefix and suffix characters — `+{{+` and `+}}+` — pasting
```
Rendering incorrectly due to the missing backticks.

Reviewer: (discussion): accept suggestion

=== The text patterns logic threw an error when there were fragmented text nodes in a paragraph

Previously, pressing *Enter* or *Return* to trigger an inline replacement text pattern could, in certain circumstances, throw an error to the console.

[listing]
----
> tinymce.min.js:9 Uncaught DOMException: Failed to execute 'setEnd' on 'Range'
----

For this update the text pattern logic was improved to handle these cases and these console errors are no longer thrown.

=== Dragging a `contentEditable=false` element towards a document’s edge did not cause scrolling

Previously, when an element with a `contenteditable=false` attribute was dragged towards the document’s edge, the drag did not cause scrolling. This meant such elements could only be dropped within the current viewport.

When dragging other elements (such as an image), as the dragged element approaches the edge of the document, {productname} starts scrolling, allowing these other elements to be dropped anywhere in the document.

With this update, dragging an element with a `contenteditable=false` attribute towards the document edge triggers scrolling, allowing for dropping the element anywhere in the document.

> In {productname} 6.2, dragging elements with `contentEditable=false` attributes now results in the same behavior as dragging other draggable elements.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
In {productname} 6.2, dragging elements with `contenteditable=false` attributes now results in the same behavior as dragging other draggable elements.
```
Just for consistency, both are correct.

Reviewer: (discussion): accept suggestion

=== Parsing large documents no longer throws a Maximum call stack size exceeded exception

Previously, parsing very large documents would throw an error to the console that they had exceeded the Maximum call stack size. 

For example:

[listing]
----
tinymce.min.js:9 Uncaught RangeError: Maximum call stack size exceeded
    at tinymce.min.js:9:144118
    at zp (tinymce.min.js:9:143461)
    at zp (tinymce.min.js:9:143480)
    at zp (tinymce.min.js:9:143507)
    at zp (tinymce.min.js:9:143507)
----

> the {productname} 6.2 parsing logic was updated and {productname} can now handle large documents without throwing this error.

Reviewer 4: Should this be a capital? It looks like a new sentence to me 🤷

Reviewer: (discussion): typo

=== DomParser filter matching was not checked between filters, which could lead to an exception in the parser

When inserting content, each node has their attributes run through a number of filters.

By default, only the filters within {productname} are run. Users are, however, able to add their own filters to run before any {productname} filters, using the xref:apis/tinymce.html.domparser.adoc[DomParser API].

Previously, this node filter function did not check whether the next filter was still valid for all nodes. This meant the {productname} filters naively assumed that each attribute would be available for each filter.

> This situation, which was not identified by default, could, when using a custom filter, potentially remove a necessary attribute for the next filter. This resulted in a console error.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
This situation, which did not occur by default, could, when using a custom filter, potentially remove a necessary attribute for the next filter. This resulted in a console error.
```

Reviewer: (discussion): accept suggestion

=== Fixed `contenteditable="false"` lists and `contenteditable="true"` list elements issues

Previously, lists with `contenteditable="false"` attributes could be toggled and updated. And, within those lists, list elements with `contenteditable="true"` attributes could be indented, split into another list element, or appended to the previous list element by deletion.

Neither behavior was correct and, as of {productname} 6.2, this has been corrected.

In {productname} 6.2, list functionality in this regard is dependent on the state of the closest inheritable `contenteditable` attribute.

If a `list` has a `contenteditable` attribute value of its own, this is, of course the closest ‘inheritable’ attribute, and the list and its child elements take that value.

If a `list` does not have a `contenteditable` attribute value of its own and the immediate parent of the `list` is a `div` which does have a `contenteditable` attribute set, the `list` will inherit the value of this attribute.

However, if the `list` has a `contenteditable` attribute value of its own it will take this value rather than the value of the parent div.

> Likeiwse, if a child element of a `list` (for example, an `+<li>+`) has a `contenteditable` attribute value of its own, it will take this value rather than the value of any parent element.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Likewise, if a child element of a `list` (for example, an `+<li>+`) has a `contenteditable` attribute value of its own, it will take this value rather than the value of any parent element.
```

Reviewer: (discussion): accept suggestion

=== Removed extra bottom padding in the context toolbar of the TinyMCE 5 skin

> In {productname} 6.1.2, extra padding was added to the context toolbar and, consequently, separator lines were incorrectly drawn on multi-line toolbars when using either the `tinymce-5` skin or premium skins.

Reviewer 4: This isn't correct... it was done in 6.0 as part of the new skin and has carried through every release since.

- [ ] Fix incorrect information about 6.1.2

Reviewer: (discussion): correct incorrect information. 6.1.2 was just when it was found.

Author: Corrected the version number.

=== Fixed a regression where pressing Enter added or deleted content outside the selection

A regression found in {productname} 6.0 caused inline elements with `contenteditable="false"` attributes to be incorrectly removed when *Enter* or *Return* were pressed on a selection which began before, and entered into, the block containing the element.

This regression was fixed in {productname} 6.2 and pressing *Enter* or *Return* in this circumstance no longer incorrectly removes these elements.

=== Fixed a regression where pressing Enter deleted selected `contenteditable="false" <pre>` elements

A regression found in {productname} 6.0 caused `preformatted` elements with `contenteditable="false"` attributes to incorrectly insert a newline when *Enter* or *Return* were pressed.

This regression was fixed in {productname} 6.2 and pressing *Enter* or *Return* no longer inserts an erroneous newline.

=== The `editor.insertContent()` API did not respect the `no_events` argument

If, for example, `editor.insertContent('<p>test</p>', { no_events: true });` was run, `BeforeGetContent` and `SetContent` events were still fired, despite `no_events` being set to `true`.

> With this update, the API respects the `no_events: true` setting. Adding content to a {productname} document with `no_events` set to true now adds the content without firing events, as expected.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
With this update, the API respects the `no_events: true` argument. Adding content to a {productname} document with `no_events` set to true now adds the content without firing events, as expected.
```

Reviewer: (discussion): actually, use "property" because it's an object field.

Reviewer 4: Edited to match the discussion.

Reviewer: (discussion): accept suggestion

[[deprecated]]
== Deprecated

=== The `autocompleter` configuration property, `ch`, has been deprecated

The `ch` autocompleter configuration property will be removed in the next major release.

Use the `trigger` property instead.

[source,js]
----
trigger: '<string>',
----

[[known-issues]]
== Known issues

This section describes issues that users of {productname} 6.2 may encounter and possible workarounds for these issues.

There are three known issues in {productname} 6.2, all affecting the new premium plugin, xref:mergetags.adoc[Merge Tags].

=== Merge Tags cannot be manually added to a {productname} document in some circumstances

There are several circumstances where typing the Merge tags prefix (by default, `+{{+`) does not activate the `autocompleter`. Consequently, choosing a Merge tag from the expected pop-up menu is not possible because the pop-up menu does not present.

Moreover, in the circumstances where the `autocompleter` does not activate, even typing the entire Merge tag does not result in the string being turned in to a Merge tag.

There is a workaround, however.

> If typing the Merge tags prefix does not work as expected, clicking the Merge tags toolbar button and selecting the desired Merge tag from the resultant menu inserts a functioning Merge tag.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
If typing the Merge tags prefix does not work as expected, clicking the Merge tags toolbar button or menu item and selecting the desired Merge tag from the resultant menu inserts a functioning Merge tag.
```
Maybe? It's just you can use either the toolbar or menu item IIUC.

Reviewer: (discussion): We'll leave this for now. The main goal was to demonstrate that there were other ways to insert, but it's hard to get the wording right.

=== Merge tags does not validate inserted strings that match merge tag syntax

If a string is pasted or otherwise inserted into a {productname} document and that string presents as a complete merge tag, the Merge tag plugin will turn the string into an apparently working merge tag, regardless of the string’s content.

For example, if a {productname} instance is running the Merge tags plugin and the plugin is using the default prefix and suffix characters — +{{+` and +}}+` — pasting

`{{not.a.merge.tag.value.for.this.document}}`

into the document results in the pasted string being turned in to an apparently working tag, ready to take whatever values `not.a.merge.tag.value.for.this.document` is the placeholder for.

There is no current workaround.

=== A Merge tags UI element has not been translated

> {productname} 6.2 adds a new UI option to MenuButtons. These toolbar objects can now present a search field at the top of the menu.

Reviewer 4: `MenuButtons` aren't a thing as mentioned earlier.
```suggestion
{productname} 6.2 adds a new UI option to menu toolbar buttons. These buttons can now present a search field at the top of the menu.
```

Reviewer: (discussion): accept suggestion

For example, if a {productname} instance is running the Merge tags plugin and the plugin is using the default prefix and suffix characters — `+{{+` and `+}}+` — pasting

`{{not.a.merge.tag.value.for.this.document}}`

into the document results in the pasted string being turned in to an apparently working tag, ready to take whatever values `not.a.merge.tag.value.for.this.document` is the placeholder for.

There is no current workaround.

=== A Merge tags UI element has not been translated

{productname} 6.2 adds a new UI option to menu toolbar buttons. These buttons can now present a search field at the top of the menu.

As text is entered in to this search field, the menu contents update in real-time. And, when nothing in the menu matches the entered string, the MenuButton presents a _No matches_ result.

This particular string, _No matches_ has not been translated.

There is no current workaround. This error is slated for fixing in a future {productname} release.

=== The Autocorrect plugin over-rides auto-capitalization.

> As a consequence of {pluginname} being case-sensitive, if

Reviewer: - [ ] can't use `pluginname`

* both `autocorrect` and `capitalization` are active; and
* a word from the specified spelling error set is mis-typed at the beginning of a sentence;

the spelling is corrected but the initial letter is not capitalized.

=== The Autocorrect plugin’s auto-capitalization does not work on text immediately following a soft return in non-empty {productname} documents.

Auto-capitalization will not operate on the entered string if

* a {productname} document contains any data other than a soft return character (Unicode U+2028, commonly entered by typing *Shift+Return*); and

* the character immediately preceding an entered string is a soft return character.

=== The Autocorrect plugin’s auto-capitalization interferes with the following Premium plugins

* `+mediaembed+`, the xref:introduction-to-mediaembed.adoc[Enhanced Media Embed] Premium plugin.

* `linkchecker`, the xref:linkchecker.adoc[Link Checker] Premium plugin.

> === When the Spell Checker Pro plugin is used, Autocorrect’s autocorrection is disabled when a non-English language is selected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== When the Spell Checker Pro plugin is used, Spelling Autocorrect's autocorrect and capitalization are disabled when a non-English language is selected.
```

Reviewer: We're a bit inconsistent with calling it `autocorrect` vs `autocorrection` unfortunately.

> When the {pluginname} is used with the xref:introduction-to-tiny-spellchecker.adoc[Spell Checker Pro] Premium plugin, autocorrection and capitalization are disabled when a non-English language is selected.

Reviewer: Can't use `pluginname`

=== Fixed `contenteditable="false"` lists and `contenteditable="true"` list elements issues

Previously, lists with `contenteditable="false"` attributes could be toggled and updated. And, within those lists, list elements with `contenteditable="true"` attributes could be indented, split into another list element, or appended to the previous list element by deletion.

Neither behavior was correct and, as of {productname} 6.2, this has been corrected.

In {productname} 6.2, list functionality in this regard is dependent on the value of the list’s `contenteditable` attribute.

> And an editable list element’s functionality is now dependent on the value of the `contenteditable` attribute in its parent list.

Reviewer 5: More specifically, this is dependent on the contenteditable state, meaning that the parent list may not have a contenteditable attribute (no attribute specified, by default it would have `inherit`) but the first parent of that list with a contenteditable attribute determines the contenteditable state of that list, for example, a noneditable `div` means any list within that div without a contenteditable attribute would be noneditable. Another example would be a contenteditable true list would be editable, even within a noneditable div. Just wanted to clarify that this isn't always determined by the attribute, but by the state of the first parent with the attribute.

Author: Re-wrote this section to make the above explicit.
